---
layout: default
type: large
title: none

description: |
---
<br/>
#### Testing with Solitude 

Using solitude you can test your contracts with [pytest](https://docs.pytest.org/). Solitude has already defined common context that can be used as test fixtures and stubs for triggering errors.  

The following contract tracks the ownership of the i-th cat in the adopters array, by assigning the owner's address to the i-th position of the array. You can find all the code in the solitude example repository in the [solitude\_examples/e01\_cat\_shelter](https://github.com/incerto-crypto/solitude-examples/tree/master/examples/e01_cat_shelter) folder.

```javascript
pragma solidity ^0.5.2;

contract CatShelter
{
    address[16] public adopters;
    function adopt(uint256 i) public
    {
        require(i < adopters.length);
        require(
            adopters[i] == address(0),
            "Cat has already been adopted");
        adopters[i] = msg.sender;
    }

```
We can easily test the adopt function with a python test. Normally for each new test we would need to stop the current ethereum server node and run a clean one. 
Solitude can manage the spin and tear down of an new ethereum node for each test by setting the `Testing.RunServer` in the configuation.
The server testing instances will be run in a port range specified in the config file, for example:  `Testing.PortRange: [8600, 8700]`


```python
import pytest
from solitude.testing import sol

def test_001_adopt_cat(sol, shelter, account0):
   
    CAT_INDEX = 3
    with sol.account(sol.address(0)):
        contract = sol.deploy("CatShelter", args=())
        contract.transact_sync("adopt", CAT_INDEX)

    assert sol.address(0) == contract.call("adopters", CAT_INDEX)

```

The sol object pushes a default context configured with the options in the `solitude.yaml`.
On top of the default sol context we can push a more detailed context. 

For example in this test we are defining the default account to the 0-th from the available ones in the Client.
You can define the available accounts and their balance for the server test in the  `Solitude.Accounts` array in the config.


Looking the `solitude.yaml` at the accounts section:

```
 Solitude.Accounts:
    - 0xedf206987be3a32111f16c0807c9055e2b8b8fc84f42768015cb7f8471137890, 200 eth
    - 0x0ca1573d73a070cfa5c48ddaf000b9480e94805f96a79ffa2d5bc6cc3288a92d, 100 eth
```
`with sol.account(sol.address(0)):` is setting `0xedf206987...1137890` as the account that deploys the `CatShelter` contract and calls after the `adopt` method. 

Notice we are deploying and transacting within the same context, so make sure the selected account has got enough funds.

Finally we check that our default address is the owner of the third cat.

Congratulations you now own a cat on the blockchain 😼

